## Portfolio Advice (webdev & gamedev)

_(Note: this is part of an exchange I had with someone asking for advice. Could be polished up for a post.)_

Regarding polished vs. unpolished, it's all going to depend on the details and where you're applying. What I would do is:

- Identify projects that you think showcase some particular skill/knowledge, and use those in your portfolio (if you want to showcase your code itself, GitHub is the most convenient way to do that -- for other stuff it could even be screencaps in a doc or games on Itch).
- For each project that you plan to share, take some time to clean up the root directory (good file-naming, a README, etc). Getting oriented to a code project is always a challenge, and if you can demonstrate that you can organize things in such a way that others can figure out where to look for stuff, that'll already put you miles ahead of most people...
- In your READMEs (or Itch pages, etc), specifically talk about why you're posting that project and what it highlights about your capabilities. A project that is for learning purposes, or just for fun, can be unpolished, incomplete, or just plain uninteresting along all kinds of dimensions. You want to focus the viewer right to the part you actually want them to look at, and why, and directly address the stuff you think will distract them. For me, the number one thing is always a person's awareness of quality, more so than the quality itself. When we last hired programmers, I quickly learned that the top red flag was whether or not someone could accurately gauge the quality of their work. One applicant specifically talked about how stellar his code was, and how he was the go-to guy at his current workplace. So I took a look at his code... the code was fine, but it was a far cry from something a life-long learner would have put together and thought was great. It didn't bother me that the code was middling, it was the apparent unawareness that he had WAY more stuff to learn. The person we did hire was new to programming, and new that, and very openly and accurately talked about all of the things he found difficult, wasn't sure if he did well, or thought he was probably missing some info/skill that would have made certain things better. He's still with us today!

I've seen a lot of webdevs who are active in the job market use either a personal website or their GitHub landing page as their centralizer, directing to or showing info about the parts of their portfolio they wanted to highlight.

(In GitHub, if you make a repo that has the same name as your username, the README file will show on your GitHub landing page. See JujuAdam's for an example: https://github.com/JujuAdams. You can also pin & sort projects on your GitHub profile, which is all I've done since I'm not on the job market.)

As for good repos, here are a few that I've spent a lot of time in:

- ajv: Multiple collaborators, professional sponsors, active development, and popular. Very well organized, and includes GitHub workflows for various automated things.
- Typescript: Microsoft-owned project, extremely popular. Since this thing has full corporate backing and a TON of activity, it's a good example of what it takes to make that work. They use the semantic release strategy, which scales well to big projects like this.
- Vue: Also very popular, funding by corporate and other donors. Set up as a monorepo to deploy multiple version-linked packages. (They don't use Lerna for that, but Lerna is very popular for monorepos.) React has a bigger repo, organized similarly.
- Typebox: This one is beautiful. The whole package is coded up in a single Typescript file, and it's doing some cool stuff with Typescript generics. The more pertinent thing, though, is that this project is coded up with far more care than any other project I've seen, and you can see how much the dev cares about the reader of the code. The vast majority of projects I interact with (including all of my own) use Prettier (or other formatters) to let collaborators write code without worrying about formatting. This is a way better strategy for productivity in writing the code, and also essential for collaboration, but definitely isn't as readable. It's possible that he's using some other kind of formatter that lines things up the way his code is, but if so it's something not listed in the code anywhere. This project also uses the test cases as the documentation, collectively making for a spartan, super-clean repository. Honestly I wouldn't recommend ever taking the time to do this, and if someone applied for a coding job with me I'd be worried that they wouldn't be able to tolerate auto-formatters, but I appreciate the care taken with this repo enough that I'd still talk to them and just directly ask the question!
